I actually had the cliche [music]
professor who got up in front of the
entire classroom and said, "God does not
exist [music] and I'm going to devote
this entire semester to proving it to
you." It worked. I begin to deconstruct
my faith. I abandoned Christianity.
[music] I begin to read his books and I
was like, "Oh, no, I'm wrong."
How do you explain dinosaurs? Now, where
do [music] they fit? Somewhere between
is when God created the dinosaurs.
Noah's flood, fact or fiction? This is
not just an allegory.
>> Is it a local [music] flood or a global
flood? It's not local. It's not global.
It's what happens when we die.
>> And you know it's going to be within
minutes when you hear your name being
called and Jesus is wanting to give you
a personal escort across this life to
the next life.
>> If the Hebrew account of creation is
true, I have one decision. Do I submit
or rebel?
>> is true and more reliable than the laws
of physics I trust, I have to give my
life to Christ. The one and the only
Mike Signorelli, everybody.
>> The Mike Signorelli. I'm also one of
your fans. I've never met somebody quite
like you. Wow.
I see the spirit of God on your life so
profoundly.
>> You're going to run your race and you're
going to see your finish line, my
friend.
>> doing is absolutely incredible. I'm
grateful to be your friend.
>> This may run in my family, but I'm where
it runs out.
I was raised in church. Many of you know
my mother and I was quite frankly forced
to go to church. I was one of those kids
where you didn't have a choice and I
became the first college educated person
on both sides of my family. And so, as I
begin to attend a big big 10 university,
I was exposed to many different ideas
and I actually had the cliche professor
of biology who got up in front of the
entire classroom and said, "God does not
exist going to devote this entire
semester to proving it to you."
And over the course of that semester, it
worked.
And I begin to deconstruct my faith and
essentially that started my sophomore
year of college and for the next 2 years
I went on a really intense journey of
trying to determine what do I believe,
but I I abandoned Christianity. And as
fate would have it, I moved into a house
at the corner of Atwater and Jordan by
the school of music in in IU Bloomington
and I got randomly, come on, we'll say
it in air quotes, I I had one of my
roommates was a guy named Lamont King
Black. This is his real name, which is
an epic name.
And he had devoted his life to
apologetics. He devoted his life to
theology and when he found out that I
used to be this hardcore Christian who
loved God, but that I had deconstructed
and I had left the faith, he he begin to
ask me, "Well, what is it?" And we
started going on this journey and at a
particular point in our discussion, he
said, "Oh, you need to read Dr. Hugh
Ross."
And and I said, "Well, what do you
mean?" He said he's an astrophysicist
and he's written all these books and so
I begin to read, you know, his books and
I'll never forget getting to a point and
where essentially one of your books you
checkmated me.
And I was like, "Oh, no, I'm wrong."
And and the Christian faith is true and
it is right and I just begin to weep and
those tear-stained pages of your book
and there's a young Mike Signorelli that
makes a journey back to Christ.
And Lamont actually prayed that prayer
with me in that house at the corner of
Atwater and Jordan and I gave my life
back to Christ and it was funny because
right after that, I met this
curly-headed girl named Julie.
And it was soon after that that we got
engaged and we got married and then I
was ordained in ministry a couple years
later. And so, I just want to sincerely
thank you
because you've been a hero in the faith.
You've been a mentor from a distance.
I've gleaned from your books. I've
poured over your books and and then a
couple of years ago, I invited you to my
YouTube channel and we talked about
aliens and all kinds of weird nerd
stuff, which I love
and it went mega viral. Like many, many
millions of views in short form content
along. And so, in many ways this is part
two. So, Dr. Hugh Ross, thank you for
coming to Manhattan for V1 Church. Thank
you for leading me back to Christ. Thank
you for the work that you do and and
welcome.
>> [laughter]
[applause]
>> Okay, so that's the story. I didn't cry.
I'm proud of myself. I cried backstage,
but we're just going to jump into it
tonight. Is that all right?
Okay, so you've got a new book, Noah's
Flood Revisited. And many of us were in
Sunday school. We did the coloring book
version of Noah's Flood. I'm just going
to start by simply asking you, Noah's
Flood, fact or fiction?
A fact.
>> [laughter]
>> Like did it really happen? And maybe you
can go a little bit deeper about about
this this story, Noah's Flood. Well, the
reason I wrote the book is Noah's Flood
in Genesis is the most ridiculed part of
the entire Bible. It's the number one
reason why people reject the Bible as
the inspired and inerrant word of God.
So, I said, "Hey, I need to write a book
showing people this is not just an
allegory. This is actually true
chronological history
and it's more scientifically defensible
today than it was 2 years ago, 5 years
ago and 10 years ago. So, the book is
packed with recent scientific
discoveries that really leave no doubt
this is an historical account. It's
chronological. It's historically and
scientifically true.
And hopefully a lot of people will now
have confidence that the Bible really is
God's word. Wow, isn't that encouraging?
And you know, this this phenomenon
continues to happen and this was
actually what led me back to Christ. It
was modern discoveries in science that
continue to prove the Hebrew account of
creation and various different biblical
narratives. So, can maybe we go a little
bit deeper because I think that skeptics
look at the story of Noah's Flood and
they say, "Well, this is a a mean God.
This is an angry God. This is a vengeful
God." But could could there be a deeper
revelation of God's justice and mercy in
Noah's Flood? Yeah, I actually make the
point this is an example of God's mercy.
This is a time when murder was rising
out of control. I show in the book that
the murder rate was above 95%.
Humanity was in danger of
self-extermination.
God had to step in to rescue humanity
from wiping itself out. And so, that's
what he did. And it's a principle you
see throughout the entire Bible.
Whatever a human civilization becomes
reprobate and or evil, just like a
surgeon says, "Hey, you got a stage four
tumor. I need to take it out of your
body, otherwise your whole body will be
infected." Likewise, God says, "Hey, if
a whole city or nation becomes
reprobate, it must be removed to save
the rest of humanity." Now, the good
news is this. In the New Testament area,
it can't happen.
Uh when Jesus rose bodily from the dead,
when the Holy Spirit for the first time
permanently indwelt followers of Jesus
Christ, they became the salt of the
earth, preventing societal reprobation.
Cuz skeptics will often say, "Well, the
God of the New Testament is different
than the God of the Old Testament." He's
not. The difference is humanity has
changed. Oh,
this is so good. What isn't that good?
So, when we look at Noah's Flood, you
had referenced these modern scientific
discoveries. Can we go a little bit
deeper into that because I'm I'm really
intrigued. How many of you going to get
the book, by the way?
You know, I want to create an appetite
in you to to go deeper in your journey,
but I'd love to hear more about those
discoveries.
>> Well, I wanted to write the book a
decade ago, but I said I'm going to wait
until we can nail down with scientific
certainty
the events of Genesis when God basically
deals with humanity's rebellion where
they say we're going to stay in one
place and God says, "I'm going to
scatter you over the all the land masses
of the earth."
For the first time, we can accurately
date when that scattering occurred.
And what's amazing is it's simultaneous
all over northern Europe, southern
Europe, Australia, Tasmania,
you know, Borneo, Japan, western Africa.
They're all colonized at the same time.
So, it basically demonstrates God's word
got out. It's the only time in human
history where you see that kind of
aggressive simultaneous migration and
colonization.
Now that we got accurate dates for that,
that establishes Noah's Flood must
predate that.
And the dates basically remove all the
scientific challenges to taking the
Bible as God's inerrant word.
Okay, this is Okay, now I know that
you're not afraid of scandal.
You've referenced the dates. Now, this
is actually one of the things that that
I needed to reconcile
in my mind going way back to the early
2000s when I first started reading your
books, the big breakthrough for me was
understanding the actual age of the
earth, right? So, do you mind maybe
stepping in that direction lovingly and
and helping people understand to to
corroborate this evidence, we have to
really truly believe
something about the timeline of the
existence of our universe. Right. Well,
what attracted me to the Christian
faith, I was not raised in a Christian
home. I actually studied the other
religions of the world first. But what
what I noticed about the Bible is it
taught a two creation model with two
revelations from God. He reveals himself
through the book of scripture. He also
reveals himself through the book of
nature and they corroborate one another.
Now you ask me about the age of the
earth. As an astrophysicist I would say,
"Well, we got that nailed down to five
places at the decimal, 4.5662
billion years ago plus or minus 0.0001
billion." And it's like
How does that square with the Bible?
Well, when I first picked up a Bible at
age 17 and began to go through Genesis
1, I said, "Number one, the Hebrew word
for day here must have at least three
distinct uh literal definitions cuz
three are used in the text." So with
creation day one, it uses the word day
for the daylight hours. Creation day
four, it's contrasting seasons, days,
and years. That's a day as 24 hours, but
in Genesis 2:4, it uses the same word
day for the entirety of creation
history. So it's day as a long period of
time. I also noticed the first six
creation days end with an evening
morning phrase.
Basically telling me each day has a
definite start time, each day has a
definite end time. But you get to
creation day seven, there's no evening
morning phrase.
Implying we're still in God's seventh
day. That's explicitly stated in Psalm
95 and Hebrews 4 where to live our lives
in such a way that we can enter into
God's seventh day.
And notice uh
God creates for six days, he ceases from
his work of creation, and he'll create
again in the new creation. The eighth
day is coming.
But what God does in the seventh day,
and we're to model what God does. We're
to work six days and on the seventh day
we're to focus on the most important
issues of life.
Which you see in scripture, God begins
his works of redemption before he
creates anything at all. For six days he
creates, what does he do in the seventh
day? He redeems. And tells us in Romans
8, when the full number of humans that
God intends to redeem have been
redeemed, he will create again. The
eighth day is coming.
So as a young man, I never saw any
contradiction between the book of
scripture and the book of nature.
They're saying the same thing, they
corroborate one another. You know, the
fact that Genesis 1 describes all the
creation events in the correct
scientific order and correctly describes
them.
It's the only book of all the ancient
religions of the world that gets
everything right. The best I found
outside of the Bible only got two out of
14 right. The Bible gets everything
right. That was my first clue this book
did not come from a mere human being. It
was inspired by the one that actually
did the creation deeds.
>> [applause]
>> So that what you what he just said was
when I rededicated my life back to
Christ. And let me tell you why. I had
read the uh Hindu Vedas.
I read the Quran. And as I begin to read
each other major world religions book,
it was easily debunked from a scientific
perspective. From a historic perspective
that it And so my thought was if I could
simply do that to the Bible then I am
free from any obligation ever be a
Christian for the rest of my life.
So remember when I talked about him
checkmating me? He just did it again.
Because I was basically reading that in
one of his books and I realized, "Oh
no."
If if the Hebrew account of creation is
true as recorded in scripture
and the Bible is reliable, then
everything else in scripture is also
true. And then I have one decision. Do I
submit or rebel?
See that that's ultimately why many of
you are here tonight because you'll be
put in a crossroads to determine whether
you're going to submit to the authority
of scriptures. You know, my my
conversion story is the same.
I basically realized, "Okay, Hindu
Vedas, Quran, the Buddhist commentaries,
they all get the science wrong. The
Bible gets everything right. It even
predicts future scientific discoveries
thousands of years ahead of time." And
it brought me to the same point of
decision. What do I do with this? Uh do
I reject it or do I give my life to
Christ? And I realized that this is true
uh and more reliable than the laws of
physics I trust, I have to give my life
to Christ.
So Wow, isn't that amazing?
More reliable than the laws of physics.
I love that line. You know
um if if you want to continue to go
deeper on this, I know that we're we're
talking about the scientific evidence
that God created the universe. We're
talking about the date and the age of
the universe. And uh if we were to kind
of like continue to flush that out, I
mean there's probably some people here
who are struggling that they're still in
you know, wrestling with doubt. And I
remember reading about you make making
the presentation about the how
the the numerical certainty of God
creating. Uh I don't know if you'd be
willing to kind of share that. Well, I
was studying the Bible the same time
that physicists were developing the
first of the space-time theorems.
Uh which basically state if the universe
contains mass and if general relativity
reliably describes the movements of
massive bodies in the universe, space
and time have to have a beginning. Space
and time are created. Which implies
there must be an agent beyond space and
time that created our universe of
matter, energy, space, and time.
So when a scientist says, "I want to see
scientific evidence for miracle." I
said, "What bigger miracle can you
actually require than the coming into
existence of all of physical reality?"
Uh God can do that, he can do all of all
of the smaller miracles. Wow, [laughter]
can you imagine?
>> So Yeah, that's incredible. And so um
you know, what are Okay, cuz I I want to
keep pointing back to the book as you
talked about these recent discoveries
and I I feel like Noah's flood is a
theme that just continues to to to come
up in culture right now. Have you guys
all been picking up on that? Uh Rick
Renner has been writing about it
extensively. People have been visiting
the site. Anthony Philip Mitchell's
talking about it. It's like you know, so
many diverse voices in the body of
Christ are talking about uh Noah's flood
right now. What are some of those recent
scientific discoveries? Well, number
one, we can date when this great
scattering humanity happened described
in Genesis 10 and 11. Those dates come
in at 40 to 50,000 years ago, which
implies Noah's flood must predate If it
predates that, we don't have a genetic
challenge to all of humanity coming from
eight people on board Noah's ark. And
then people were wondering, "Well, could
people that far back actually build a
boat of that size?" Well, just before
this book went to press, a paper got
published where they discovered these
big thick ropes in the southern islands
of Indonesia and realizing these had to
be ropes for large ships going from
Indonesia to Australia that were 3 or
400 feet long. So basically showing,
yeah, people that far back already could
build boats that big. And then uh people
were saying, "Well, you know, what's
this gopher wood?"
I noticed the Old Testament mentions 20
21 different kinds of hardwood.
Gopher wood is not identified, but the
fact that the Bible mentions 21 other
different kinds of hardwood tells us
gopher wood has a higher strength index
than acacia wood. And if it does, you
can easily have a wooden boat 450 feet
long, which has been a primary challenge
people saying, "No one can build a boat
that big." We know they can.
And then now, you know, what about the
animals on board the ark? Seven
different Hebrew words are used in
Genesis 6 and 7 and 8 for the animals on
board Noah's ark. If you look at all
seven words, it's basically talking
about the basar nephesh, which means the
animals domesticated by humans.
And the total number of animals pairs
would have been domesticated by humans
would be under 300, which means the ark
is plenty big enough to house all those
animals. And again, you look at the
Bible text on judgment, the only animals
that can be negatively impacted by human
sin are the animals that we can
domesticate for agricultural purposes
and that we make as pets. Which is why
it says in the Old Testament, "If a cow
has a habit of goring other animals and
that continues and the owner is rebuked,
if that continues, then the cow must be
killed and the owner along with it."
Making the point the human is
responsible for that animal behaving in
that way.
But don't worry about cockroaches, your
sin is not going to affect the behavior
of a cockroach. [laughter]
That's hilarious.
Doesn't that satiate so many questions
you've had? Because when all you have is
coloring book Christianity, you I mean
that version of Noah's ark just seems so
absolutely ridiculous that it in some
ways it makes you almost ashamed to call
yourself a Christian. But when you
actually look at the text, you go back
to the Hebrew words, you understand the
historic context, it all starts making a
lot more sense. Here's the question that
I I've been dying to ask you.
Is it a local flood or a global flood?
Well, what I talk about in this book,
it's not local, it's not global, it's
worldwide.
What you see in 2 Peter 2, the world of
ungodly people was flooded. So, the
flood extended as far as ungodly people
lived.
Well, I think we can be assured there
were no ungodly people living in
Antarctica. So, there's no need for God
to flood Antarctica.
>> [laughter]
>> There's no need for Noah to take on
board uh penguins cuz they wouldn't have
been damaged by human sin. God's
judgment only goes as far as the uh you
know, the iniquity of human uh evil. Uh
just like a surgeon limits his
operations uh to the extent of the uh
you know, the metastasis. And the Bible
actually uses that word for human sin.
He operates when it's in danger of
metastasizing.
Cuz at one point uh we have Abraham
saying, "I know you're going to wipe out
Sodom and Gomorrah, but what about these
wicked Amorites?" God says their
wickedness has not yet reached its
fullness. I will not touch them.
But he did take out the Sodomites cuz
they were in danger of infecting the
rest of humanity. So, as the world of
ungodly people was flooded. Now, I
believe they inhabited a large region of
the world, but there were no humans in
North America or South America or
Australia at that time. We're basically
talking the Near and Middle East, maybe
parts of Eastern Africa. That's still a
really huge flood, which is why I'm
saying, "Hey, if we're talking previous
to 40 to 50,000 years ago, that puts it
during the last ice age when you got
enormous melt events that have easily
produced a really vast flood."
Okay, did you pick up on that?
So, once you move away from a localized
flood, but also you move away from a
global flood, and you now say it's
worldwide and it's God's judgment upon
those who uh you know, were were in that
equation, then the record would also
seem to indicate that you even from like
uh archaeological perspective, right?
When you look at the layers, you you say
can you maybe talk a little bit more
about that? Like it the the melting is
it's all that it's it would corroborate
your version of this uh interpretation.
>> Well, people think the last ice age was
a period where you just had thousands of
feet of ice covering, you know, a lot of
the land masses uh for, you know, almost
100,000 years. The truth is the previous
last ice age had eight melt events. In
other words, where you got thousands of
feet thickness of ice melting and then
refreezing, melting and refreezing. So,
you got the ice shrinking and expanding.
And if you got that kind of a melt
event, you get a lot of water. Explains
why the flood lasted a whole year.
Because the only way it can last that
long is if you got a lot of ice that's
melting replacing the water that's
flowing out into the ocean. Wow. Isn't
that amazing?
Wow. So, I want to do a a few things cuz
I I think this is fun. Are you all
enjoying this, by the way? Time is
flying by uh by the way. I'm like
enthralled. Um and and again, this is
just uh been so enriching. So, if you
had to um
And and and then I'm going to challenge
you, but I know you're up for it. Uh
and and so, if you had to try to
convince an atheist, somebody who's
struggling in 60 seconds, how what what
with all the expansive knowledge that
you have, of course you've been delving
into Noah's flood, uh you've written
about so many different aspects of
unbelief, but if you were to look at
somebody in 60 seconds who struggled
with unbelief, with atheism, what what
would be the the means of communication?
What would you say? Well, Mike, every
day I get atheists on my social media
saying, "The flood is a a scientifically
provable myth."
I say, "Well, it's it's because you
think the Bible teaches the flood is
global and happened just a few thousand
years ago. Have you actually read all
the texts in the Bible, not just those
in Genesis? There's more content on
Noah's flood outside of Genesis than in
Genesis. If you read all that, you'll
discover the Bible puts the date a lot
earlier and really talks about a
worldwide flood, not a global flood.
Once they understand that, they say,
"Okay, no longer does science have an
objection to that." And then they begin
to ask other questions on other
subjects.
Come on, wasn't that good?
And and I think what I found too in in
trying to debate people and have like
really robust discussions is most
people, and maybe you can confirm this,
are only a few questions away from
embracing Christ. And it's often not 50
questions, it's really just a few major
questions. Are there like some what what
are some of the major things? I know you
just referenced one of them. Are there
some others that people you some common
things that people struggle with? Well,
they struggle with Genesis 1. They
think, "Hey, this is all scientific
nonsense." I said, "Yeah, probably cuz
you're not applying the biblical testing
method, aka the scientific method." That
always shocks them. The scientific
method actually comes from the pages of
scripture. Step one, don't interpret
until you identify the point of view.
Genesis 1:2 says the point of view is
God hovering on the surface of the
waters below the clouds, not above the
clouds.
Most skeptics think God is taught
telling us his story from above the
clouds. From that perspective, Genesis 1
is teaching 100% scientific nonsense.
But put it correctly on the surface of
the waters, it's 100% true.
And just just showing people quickly how
that works out, within just a few
minutes I say, "Oh, the Bible got it
right thousands of years before
scientists even discovered this."
And another one I like to use on my
peers in astrophysics, the Bible's the
only ancient book that actually said we
live in a Big Bang universe. They say,
"Well, show me the scriptures." I show
them. They say, "Wow, you're right. This
is the only book that actually said it
thousands of years uh before scientists
discovered it." And the first scientist
to discover it uh was a Christian
astrophysicist,
>> [laughter]
>> Abbe Lemaitre in 1925. Wow. In 1925?
>> Yeah. Wow, that is amazing.
Isn't this awesome?
Are you all getting something out of
this?
Okay, so I know that we're coming up on
time. If it's all right, can we just
extend a little bit? Is that all right?
>> Sure. Yeah. I mean, I you like how I ask
him in front of all of you and peer
pressure him?
>> [laughter]
>> Okay.
I'm going to selfishly ask some of my
questions, and then if you're up to it,
maybe we could take a few from the
audience.
Okay, so the team maybe the team can get
ready with like a microphone and and
we'll take a few questions uh from the
audience just to kind of and then and
then we'll transition. So, here's how I
wrote it cuz I I'm I'm trying to think
I'm like, "Okay, I'm here with Dr. Uros.
This is one of the highlights of my
year."
Here's how I wrote it. What scientific
discovery keeps evolutionists awake at
night?
Yeah, I debate a lot of evolutionary
biologists. I say,
>> I asked. Yeah.
So, I have you ever considered the
physics of the sun? They say, "What's
the sun got to do with evolutionary
biology?" Everything.
The sun gets brighter and brighter as it
fuses hydrogen to helium. And life can
only tolerate a 1% change in the
brightness of the sun.
Now,
what happens is as the sun gets brighter
and brighter, we have these mass
extinction events where life is removed
from the Earth and immediately new life
appears. But that new life is more
efficient at pulling greenhouse gases
out of the atmosphere. So, as the sun
gets brighter and brighter, life on
planet Earth becomes more and more
efficient at removing these greenhouse
gases to keep the temperature on the
surface of the Earth optimal for life.
Here's the bottom line. Only a mind that
knows the future physics of the sun
would know which life to remove from
planet Earth and which new life to
replace it and how often to do that.
Now, this is actually in Psalm 104. It's
a property of all life to die off, but
God recreates and renews the face of the
Earth.
But only a mind that knows the future
physics of the sun would be able to know
which life to remove, which new life to
bring in. An evolutionary mechanism
would immediately get it wrong.
And so, I've been finding that's the
most effective way and the fastest way
to convince people believe in biological
evolution, no, nature can't do it. It
takes God to pull it off. Oh, it's so
good.
I love it. Well, okay, let me ask a
follow-up question. So, what do you say
and again, I I know some of this because
of course you've helped me through all
of these questions, but I'm trying to
give everybody a little taste to
encourage you to go to his website, to
buy his books, and to go on your own
journey and because his time is limited,
but you know, one of the things that I
wrestled with was the pre-humanoids.
I mean, that for me was major. I don't
know if it's because I look like one. I
don't know, you know, but that would
that for me was tough. And it was your
it was the work that you've devoted your
life to in some seasons to write about
that particular topic that just helped
me greatly. So, I don't know if you
could just quickly kind of tag that in.
Well, we see about a dozen different
species of bipedal primates that
preceded us human beings.
Uh but it's not an evolutionary path.
What we notice is that the brain size is
like this as you go through the 6
million year history. Their bipedal
capability goes up and down like this.
So, it's not an evolutionary path
towards bigger brain and greater bipedal
capability. The one place where we do
see a linear rise is the capacity of
each successive species to hunt
large-bodied bird and mammal creatures.
And what's interesting, there were none
of these bipedal primate species in
North America, South America, or
Australia.
And when humans came into those three
continents, they quickly wiped out the
large-bodied bird and mammals that they
needed to launch civilization. Notice
the humans in Australia, North and South
America, they remained stuck in the
Stone Age. It took Europeans bringing
the animals that they needed to get out
of the Stone Age.
Now, the extinction rate in Australia
when humans entered it was 94.5%.
The extinction rate in Africa,
where these all but one of these species
existed, was only 4.5%.
What is happening is God specially
created these different species
basically to train these animals, when
you see tall bipedals with weapons in
their hands, run away.
And here's the biblical perspective. God
created birds and mammals to come to us
and to serve and please us. And so he
created these bipedal primates to say,
"Look,
these humans, they're going to be
sinners and they're going to do you
harm. And so the bipedal primates
basically trained them, hey, when you
see them, run away." And notice these
animals survived in Europe, Africa, and
Asia. They did not survive in North and
South America and Australia. And each
one of these species had a small
population. We're not talking millions,
we're talking thousands. If it's
thousands, they can't evolve. And the
evidence for that, we look at
Neanderthals, for example, they were
here from 400,000 years ago to about
40,000 years ago. Their anatomy is the
same throughout that whole period.
There's no evolution. And their
technology is the same. Their techno
There is no technological advance. When
we humans come upon the scene, within a
few tens of thousands of years, we're
putting people on the moon. So, our
technology explodes, their technology
was stagnant.
So it really does show that we do
uniquely have the image of God. We're
exceptional.
Oh, I love that. That helped me greatly.
That that answer at certain point in my
journey was absolutely necessary. And
you know what it did, and I just I want
to speak from an emotional perspective,
it caused my trust in God to increase.
And I found great comfort in the fact
that he had this whole thing figured
out. And it also made me realize that
even the greatest IQ is a pea-sized
intelligence compared to God's mind, you
know? And so thank you for the work that
you've done to try to decode some of the
decisions that our our master, our
creator,
has deployed in these different eras for
our benefit. Isn't it amazing? It's It's
kind of the equivalency of the kid in
the backseat of the car who's like,
"When are we going to get there?" And
it's like, "Listen, just trust me. You
have no idea how to drive a car. You
have no idea how to get us there." Like
I think there's times where you when
when I look back historically, it's like
the Lord has been taking his children on
a journey. He knows the destination and
we can trust in him, you know? Or some
would say, "Jesus, take the wheel." So
let's let's take a few questions.
So, I had a question about
defining the supernatural and the
spiritual, where there's kingdom of
light and the kingdom of darkness. And I
just wanted to ask cuz I did listen to
your podcast with Pastor Mike talking
about aliens and how that's connected
more so spiritually or supernaturally
versus maybe the alien patterns that we
have seen so far. So essentially, he's
asking about, you know, good versus
evil, God versus Satan. You know, of
course we talked about aliens the last
time, maybe that factors in somehow. How
would you respond to someone asking
about the nature of the spiritual realm,
angels, demons, which you've written a
lot about as well. Well, I got a brand
new book coming out within a few months
that's about extraterrestrial life,
UAPs, and
making the point God created two
distinct species of intelligent life.
We human beings that are constrained by
the physics of the universe and angels
who are not. He's given them the power
to come into our realm and leave our
realm.
And uh but one of the things we just
were talking about today is how we know
we're not being visited by
extraterrestrials like us because the
biggest spaceship that can travel
through interstellar space without being
totally destroyed by the particles that
are there is about the size of a
matchstick.
So
not even a bacterium is going to make
it. However, angelic beings are not
constrained by the physics of the
universe. And one things we're noticing
about the UAP phenomenon, I've been
studying them since I was 16. About 99%
of what people report to me, it's either
a natural phenomena or it's a human-made
phenomena. But there's a 1% residual.
And we notice about that 1% residual, we
can prove that they're real at the same
time we can prove that they're
non-physical. So there's literally more
than a thousand places in the world
where UFOs have been observed coming
through the atmosphere at more than
10,000 mph, no sonic boom, no heat
frictions observed. If it's a physical
object, you will get a sonic boom or a
heat friction. They crash into the
earth, you go to the crash site, you can
see a shallow crater. The vegetation is
always damaged. As you investigate the
site, no debris, no artifacts. If it's a
physical object, you're going to get
artifacts, you're going to get debris.
Here you get nothing.
And the other thing we notice is that
people of close encounters with these
non-physical but real entities, it's
always harmful. The best they come away
with is recurring terrifying nightmares.
Worst-case scenario, they get killed by
the encounter. So, there really is
evil supernatural beings out there. And
you know, we were just joking before.
We know these beings are there because
look at how much crazy the world's
politics is. I mean, if it wasn't for
interference like you see in the book of
Daniel, politics would be a whole lot
more rational. So don't get too
overrought by politics. There really is
a supernatural battle going on. And
guess what? We're part of that battle.
>> [applause]
>> Absolutely.
Now, just as a quick tag to that, I I
believe that also you've observed that
there is
in cultures where there's an obsession
with maybe witchcraft or the
supernatural, there seems to be a
disproportionate number of of UFO
reports. And so there's kind of an
overlay between the their the culture's
obsession with witchcraft and their
observations of UFOs, right? There's
something there.
>> I spoke on this to scientists in the
Soviet Union when it was run by the
communists. And now that was a time when
their major research institutions were
sponsoring occult physics. And so I'd be
speaking to scientists where as many as
20% of them you could tell were
possessed by demons.
I went back in 1994
when the communists were no longer
running the show, that percentage had
dropped. That's because they were no
longer sponsoring occult physics
research. It was still there, but it was
nothing like it was
during the late 1980s.
So, and that's you know, you can see
that. Equatorial Brazil, the percentage
is way higher. That's because people are
practicing the occult to a much higher
degree. And when I'm sharing this book,
close all the doors of the occult,
that'll be the end of these UAP
encounters that you have. This is a
testable hypothesis. You know, get rid
of the occult, it won't happen. Bring
the occult in your life, it will happen.
Wow, so good. Okay, so I see the
questions building up. There's a very
high likelihood we're we're not going to
be able to get to all the questions, but
let's take a few more. Hi, I'm Crystal
Eyes. I'm very grateful for this evening
so far. I wanted to ask from your work
studying God's creation, how do you
understand or articulate what happens
after someone passes? Ah, okay.
So you have not watched our YouTube
interview.
That was But I you should cuz he gave a
brilliant answer, but I think he's a I
was going to ask that question tonight
again because selfishly when I had him
on my channel, that was my own question.
Like, how does Dr. Hugh Ross ask answer
the question of what happens when we
die? And
I love I love your response, but let's
So what happens when we die? Well, first
of all, it tells us in Ecclesiastes God
has written eternity on the heart of
every human being. We all know deep down
that when we pass from this life, we
don't cease existing. That's why people
fear death. They fear judgment cuz they
know that's not the end of everything.
And now, you know, when my dad was
passing away, he said, "Son, please tell
me what it's like to die cuz I'm going
to be facing that in a few days." I
said, "Well, Dad, because you're a
follower of Jesus Christ, what you're
going to notice a few days before you
pass, you're going to start feeling
confused. That's cuz your body is
shutting down your organs. And then
about a day or two before you pass,
you're going to think you're going to
recover cuz the body basically stops uh
trying to support all the internal you
feel warm, you feel wonderful. That's a
sign it's going to happen really soon.
And you know it's going to be within
minutes when you hear your name being
called and Jesus is wanting to give you
a personal escort across this life to
the next life. And uh you know, so if
you're a follower of Jesus Christ, you
won't die alone. Jesus will meet you and
take you across that threshold. And when
you hear your name being called, you
know that's the time.
So.
>> [applause]
>> Amazing. Thank you for that.
>> way, King David said it first. It's in
Psalm 23.
>> Yeah. Yea, though I walk through the
threshold of death, he will take me. He
will guide me by the hand. Indeed he
does. Oh, that's so beautiful. Every
time. Thank you so much. Next Thank you
so much for that question.
>> [snorts]
>> Uh My name is Eileen. Um
quickly a quick question. What parallels
do you draw between Noah's generation
and the world we live in today? And how
can the story of the ark encourage
Christians to stand firm in their faith
and righteousness? Okay, I love that
question. That's a leading question we
call uh cuz you're framing it, but
that's I I I also was kind of like
speaking towards that because the
there's a lot of conversations about
Noah's generation being paralleled with
the generation that we're in now. Do you
see uh any any similarities between them
and and what would be your warning to
Christians or what would be your advice
to Christians? Well, I take a more
optimistic view because Jesus said he
would return when we take the good news
of salvation to all the people groups of
the world. And then we're now living at
a time when the gospel literally is
going worldwide to all the people groups
telling us I think the time is close.
But the Bible also tells us when you see
huge numbers of people coming to faith
in Jesus Christ in all the people groups
of the world, that'll be the same time
when you'll see evil rising to a degree
you've never seen before. So it's going
to be a real stark difference between
evil and good. And I think we're seeing
exponential signs we're entering into
that time.
But you know, I don't think we're to
wait for the return of the Lord. He's
basically said this, I'm coming back
when you followers of Jesus Christ
complete the task. So and I had Ralph
Winter in my class that I teach uh in
the Pasadena
area and he wrote a book basically
saying that evangelical Christians today
have the finances, they got the
technology, they got the people to
fulfill the Great Commission in less
than 10 years. In fact, he said at one
point they can do it in 5 years. All we
lack is the motivation.
But as I look at all of all of you, I
see a lot of motivation. I think we can
get it done. We can do it in Manhattan,
we can do it worldwide, right?
>> [laughter]
[applause]
>> Come on. [cheering]
That's right.
Do we make Dr. Hugh Ross like an
honorary Manhattan pastor tonight?
Like can do I just give him like an
honorary ordination tonight? He's the V1
Church family. We're adopting him. Uh
but you know, we're at the crossroads of
the world and you guys know this. We
were just given the opportunity to do
Easter Sunday in Times Square and I
believe that that is going to be a sign
a witness to the world because even this
room, look at all of the cultures, look
at all the the heritages that are coming
together and we're finding our identity
in Jesus Christ. And so I believe that
tonight even is symbolic of reaching the
world quite literally. And and so thank
you for that. Let's do two more, okay?
And then and then we're going to pray.
Hi everybody, my name is Alvin and it's
my first time visiting here. I thank you
all.
Welcome, Alvin.
>> [applause]
>> So I I wrote down the question so I
could be brief with this. But um when I
was a child, I um worked real hard
cleaning someone's yard out so I could
make enough money to see the movie
In Search of Noah's Ark.
So it just brings out curiosity to think
your information, have you ever looked
into that particular movie in terms of
it being launched somewhere in Russia, I
believe, and politics got in the way and
there's no way of really getting to it
physically. Can you add to that?
Okay, so I think the question that
you're asking is have we found the
literal vestiges of Noah's Ark?
And and that that film kind of talks
about that that it is it it could
potentially be seen and
also how compatible is the information
that you're presenting today to what we
had
decades ago? Yeah. Hey, it's all in
chapter 14 of this book.
Uh but I'll try to be brief in the sense
that the Bible tells us the ark came to
rest on the mountains of Ararat, not
Mount Ararat. The mountains of Ararat
covers about a 100,000 square miles. I
believe it came to rest in the mountains
of Ararat just north of Nineveh. And
hey, it was made out of gopher wood,
which has a higher strength index than
acacia wood. There's no way the people
post flood would have left that wood
lying around. It would have been way too
valuable. They would have taken the
Noah's Ark apart and used it to build
cities like Nineveh. You say, well,
let's go to Nineveh and find it. Here's
the problem. Nineveh was burnt to the
ground several times. The best we're
going to do is find the ashes of the
wood of Noah's Ark. Uh so and yeah,
there's stories that are running around
uh that there's a structure uh near
Mount Ararat that looks just like the
size of Mount Ararat.
Uh you know, it's a geological incline
and uh you see them all over help my
mountain alpine regions. And hey, my
wife and I we love mountaineering. Uh we
do it every summer and I've seen many
inclines here in North America that are
closer to representing Noah's Ark than
the one they're talking about in Russia
and Armenia. So it's a geological
incline. It's not the remains of Noah's
Ark. There's another story where they
said they found a piece of wood about
that big that they thought was the
remains of Noah's Ark. Well, it was a
softwood. A softwood wouldn't have been
strong enough for Noah's Ark. And but
they did date it. They said the date is
right, 5,500 years, which is what a lot
of people think Noah's Ark happened.
Uh but they didn't look at the error
bar. It was 5,500 years plus or minus
5,000 years. So really you can't say. I
believe it's wood left over from a
climbing hut. Again, if you're not
familiar with climbing glaciated peaks,
the only way you're going to get up
there uh safely and back down, you build
a hut just underneath the highest
glacier, you stay there and you climb it
early in the morning, you get back down
before the ice starts melting. And so
the ancients knew that's the way you
climb high glaciated peaks. I don't
think the remains of Noah's Ark will
ever be found because Noah's Ark was
taken apart and used to build the cities
of the plain we see described in Genesis
chapter 11.
Ah, so good.
Pastor Matt, I'd love to gift this book
to that gentleman that asked that
question. I'd love So I'm assigning you
chapter 14 and you have 1 week
and I want Turabian formatting for your
paper.
>> [laughter]
[applause]
>> I think the book's going to be better
than the movie. I'm just saying. But
excellent question. And and okay, I did
I say one more? Okay, go ahead. How do
you explain dinosaurs?
>> Yes. Okay.
Okay, hold on. Hold on. I would like to
gift you a book
for giving me a viral video
because I was going to ask that
question. Dr. Hugh Ross,
you only have till midnight. So uh
>> [laughter]
>> uh Dr. Hugh Ross, how do you explain
dinosaurs? Well, if you go to our
YouTube channel, you'll see two quick
clips that do that for you, but I'll be
brief. Okay. The Bible doesn't mention
dinosaurs. It doesn't mention neutrinos
either because it uses vocabulary that
all generations will understand. The
Bible was written for all generations
and we only discovered dinosaurs in the
1850s. So I would expect the Bible would
be silent on it. Now, where do they fit?
They fit on creation day five between
God creating the first sea animals and
God creating birds and sea mammals.
Somewhere between those two is when God
created the dinosaurs. Where do they
best fit in in scripture? Psalm 104.
Psalm 104 is the longest of the creation
Psalms and basically says God packs our
planet with as much life as possible and
as diverse as possible so that we humans
will have all the bio deposits we need
to launch our civilization.
And so uh when conditions are
appropriate for God to create these
really huge land animals, he will create
them cuz he's committed greatest
diversity possible. But you only have
really big land animals when you got
vast shallow seas. And this happened all
over North America, South America,
Australia,
uh Asia,
uh and Europe uh during three episodes
where you had these huge shallow seas.
Now, without shallow seas, the biggest
land animal you can have is the size of
an elephant. Anything bigger than that
will be catastrophically destroyed by
the law of gravity. I mean, notice in
the NBA, the taller the basketball
player, the more likely they are to be
injured because they have longer
distance to fall when they trip. Same
thing's true with these animals. But if
you got shallow seas, the water provides
the necessary buoyancy that you can have
a land animal that weighs 80 tons and is
50 ft tall and therefore won't injure
itself. So when you see Jurassic Park
movies where it shows this T-Rex running
after a Jeep at about 40 mph, that can't
happen. There's no way an animal that
big would be able to run that fast and
not do itself serious damage because of
the law of gravity. So uh uh that T-Rex
was basically hunting big dinosaurs in
shallow seas where the water provides
the necessary buoyancy support. And so
when did that happen? Well, it happened
between 230 and 66 million years ago.
That's when you had these vast shallow
seas and that's when said, "Okay, we got
vast shallow seas." God created the
diversity of animals to take advantage
of the shallow seas. And because of God
doing this, packing the planet with as
much life as possible, as diverse as
possible, look at all the coal, the oil,
the natural gas, the limestone, the
marble that we have. And if it wasn't
for all those generations of life
preceding us and getting buried, we
wouldn't be able launch this global
high-tech civilization that enables us
to take the gospel to the ends of the
earth.
So God had it all in mind that we'd be
fulfilling the Great Commission when he
created the dinosaurs.
Amazing. [applause]
Amazing.
You didn't think you were going to get
the Great Commission with that question.
So now what's your excuse, son? I have
none.
>> [laughter]
>> Hey, one more thing and this is so
important. I would like to pray for you
and I want to mail you a copy of my book
Inherit Your Freedom. You [music] know,
there's quizzes inside here that are
super quick and what they do is help you
assess the inherited curses and patterns
of sin that have come through your
bloodline. And then I have links to
these [music] prayers, really powerful
prayers that I'm going to pray over your
life and people write me every single
month talking about how much freedom and
healing they experience from the prayers
in this book as well. But here's the
thing, I need you to scan the QR code
that's on the screen now. So go ahead
and take out your phone and do that or
go to the description and tap the link
that's in the description and and go
ahead become a partner. Now, when you do
that, I'm going to mail you this book,
but also [music] I'm going to email you
a link every single month to meet me in
Zoom. And you're going to meet people
from all over the world [music] and I
give prophetic insights each month and
it's just this incredible time together
for partners. So what are you waiting
for? Scan [music] that QR code now and
partner with Mike Signorelli Ministries.
You're going to get this book mailed to
your house and you're also [music] going
to get an email for the next Zoom and I
can't wait to meet you there and bring
you a little bit closer to the Mike
Signorelli Ministries [music] family.
Hey, I'll see you in the next sermon.